our story begins with a tantalizing
glimpse of something very special
just ten days old wild cups as young as
this have never been filmed before for
their first six weeks most Cubs usually
hide away in their dens hardly glimpse
in daylight
these are unusually adventurous they
seem totally unaware of the dangers
although their eyes are just opening
they won't see clearly for another six
weeks
they're the mother's first litter and
they're going to be quite a test for her
the Tigers must pick them up by the
scruff of the neck it's a delicate
operation and it had too much pressure
and she'll hurt her cub she could bite
for the force of nearly 500 kilos but
this requires the gentlest touch Tigers
usually have two or three comes before
are quite a handful and these already
seem more challenging than most the
ratio between the sexes among newborns
is usually equal true to form two of
these Cubs are male and to a female it
will be rare indeed for all four of them
to reach maturity many dangers lie ahead
at this size they make a snack for even
the smallest predator their mother must
make sure that everyone is accounted for
with two back in the den and one on its
way there's only one straggler left
worrying about
the Cubs contact cry make sure he's not
forgotten as long as the Cubs call their
mother is compelled to keep retrieving
them but this would try any mother's
patience the young Cubs life is very
precarious had the mother been away
hunting at a moment like this the
outcome could have been very different
he's clearly going to be a devoted
mother but she still has a lot to learn
this is not the way to do it
zooming such behavior is unprecedented
it gives us an extraordinary opportunity
to follow these Cubs as they grow